W-19046539-extra-env-variable (#388)
mulesoft/docs-hosting: cloudhub-2/modules/ROOT/pages/ps-config-advanced.adoc

. Click *Enable AWS Service Role*.
. Click *Save Changes* or *Discard changes*.
+
A unique service role name is generated, and you can use this role to configure identity and access management for AWS. Role generation takes a few minutes. If the role name doesn't appear, refresh the page.

[NOTE]
Each private space supports only one AWS service role.

[[aws-iam-role-sts-s3-connector-conflict]]
=== IAM Roles and AWS S3 Connector: STS Endpoint Behavior

When you enable the AWS service role for a private space, the EKS cluster injects environment variables such as `AWS_STS_REGIONAL_ENDPOINTS=regional`. The AWS SDK credential provider that this setup uses, WebIdentityTokenFileCredentialsProvider, ignores any custom `endpointOverride` or STS endpoint settings in your Mule application and always uses the default regional STS endpoint.

[IMPORTANT]
====

> When you enable a Private Space IAM role, the AWS SDK ignores custom STS endpoints in your Mule code and uses the public regional STS endpoint. If your network firewall or application-level egress rules don't allow outbound traffic to that STS endpoint, connectivity tests for the AWS S3 Connector and other AWS SDK-based connectors fail and applications hang or stop progressing. Whitelist the public regional STS endpoint, for example `sts.{region}.amazonaws.com`, in your private space firewall rules and, if you use them, in your application-level egress rules.

Author: ```suggestion
When you enable a Private Space IAM role, the AWS SDK ignores custom STS endpoints in your Mule code and uses the public regional STS endpoint. If your network firewall or application-level egress rules don't allow outbound traffic to that STS endpoint, connectivity tests for the AWS S3 Connector and other AWS SDK-based connectors fail and applications hang or stop progressing. Allow the public regional STS endpoint, such as `sts.{region}.amazonaws.com`, in your private space firewall rules and, if you use them, in your application-level egress rules.
```

====

To allow connectivity, allow outbound HTTPS on port 443 to the regional STS endpoint for the region where your private space runs. Configure this in xref:ps-config-fw-rules.adoc[] and, when using app-level egress, in xref:ps-config-app-level-egress.adoc[].

> When allowlisting isn't possible, set the `AWS_ENDPOINT_URL` environment variable for your application to the desired STS endpoint URL so the SDK uses it instead of the default regional endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If allowlisting isn't possible, set the `AWS_ENDPOINT_URL` environment variable for your application to the desired STS endpoint URL so the SDK uses it instead of the default regional endpoint.
```

> When whitelisting isn't possible, set the `AWS_ENDPOINT_URL` environment variable for your application to the desired STS endpoint URL so the SDK uses it instead of the default regional endpoint.

Author: ```suggestion
When allowlisting isn't possible, set the `AWS_ENDPOINT_URL` environment variable for your application to the desired STS endpoint URL so the SDK uses it instead of the default regional endpoint.
```

To apply the workaround:

. In Runtime Manager, open your application and go to the *Settings* > *Properties* tab.
. Add an application property or environment variable that sets `AWS_ENDPOINT_URL` to your STS endpoint URL, for example `https://sts.{region}.amazonaws.com` or your custom endpoint.

> . Apply changes and redeploy or restart the application so the runtime uses the new value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Apply the changes and redeploy or restart the application, so the runtime uses the new value.
```

> For more information on setting environment variables or properties for your application, see xref:ch2-manage-props.adoc#example-using-properties-to-set-environment-variables[Example: Using Properties to Set Environment Variables].

Author: ```suggestion
For more information about setting environment variables or properties for your application, see xref:ch2-manage-props.adoc#example-using-properties-to-set-environment-variables[Example: Using Properties to Set Environment Variables].
```
